Everyone.
So we are discussing it and the problem, it's a popular problem on record and you can see it.
It's known as friends betting problem.
So given friends who want to go to a party and each of them can remain single or can be paired up with
some other friends, let's say that is a party happening and go up.
Okay.
Maybe you want to go to this party.
And what people can do.
People can either go solo.
Or they can pair up with someone, they can go as a couple as well.
So either you can go single or you can go as a couple.
So each friend can be paired only once.
Okay.
You cannot make beds with multiple people.
Find out the total number of ways in which friend friends can remain single or can be paired up.
So let us take an example of a let's say we have three friends.
Okay.
So what we can do is A, B and C.
Now all of them can go single.
So there is one way.
It goes alone.
Because alone she goes alone.
Or maybe.
And we decide to pair up and she goes alone.
And they decide to pair up.
And we go alone again.
Or maybe.
And we decide to pair up and it goes alone.
That is all too possible if you are for friends, like for an equal to three.
The answer is four.
If you had four friends then that would have been even more combinations.
Even all of them can go solo, but in the best case, all of them can get paired up, maybe even be
better and better and better be any better.
Or maybe EG was alone because alone he ended up.
So there are so many ways we need to find out and how many ways you can add up these people or you they
can also go as single.
Some of them can go as single.
Some of them also can be.
That is a question.
Now, let us discuss possible approach to solve this kind of a problem.
So again, idea is we try to break it down.
We have people who are standing in the road, let's say, and there is this guy, let's say, and now
we will only talk about what are the options for.
Okay.
Let's say it has B, C, D, up to up to whatever it is.
If you have up to ten people.
Now, if it goes alone, there is one option.
If it goes alone, then what is going to happen?
The remaining people.
Okay, so you can go alone in only one way.
There is only one way for it to go.
I look able.
Look, I'm going to the party.
The rest of you manage by yourself.
If there are f of envies for all of these people to go to the party.
But n minus one people.
There is harmony of is f of n minus one is is also going.
And these people are all doing so.
And these people are going, who is going alone?
There is only one way in which he can go alone.
It would be one multiplied by F of n minus one because there is a is going and n minus one people are
all going.
Or what we can have is is no, I want to go with my girlfriend.
Okay.
So he wants to be Arab, so he wants to make up here with someone.
Okay, so that would be anyone.
Maybe that could be this girl.
Or maybe that could be this guy.
It won't work and it might be out of the this one or this one.
So it has how many options to make up here?
Obviously, we have N minus one B, but we have it has MN minus one basis.
Lapera But someone says, okay, we'll build up at some one in minus one with how many people are left
in the remaining three you're left with and minus two people.
So it can go with someone and minus one, even with that is nothing but n minus one in two.
And the remaining people are also going so they can go in how many base that is F of n minus two.
Look, we would find London would be some of these took all the means plus the one into a five and minus
one plus and minus one into f of n minus.
We can write f of and as f of an would be nothing but.
F of n minus one if it goes alone.
Plus and minus one in two and minus two.
That is that Oakland will get the ideas that it grants that we have created.
Now, what about the base case?
If there are zero people in the whole country, if there is one person, that would be one.
If there are two people, then either they go alone, let's say N.B., or they go as a couple.
There are two ways they try to drive this using this reference so we can see f four then equal to two
should be two.
We can also verify and minus one is what one plus two minus one is one and f of two minus two that is
zero.
So that is also one.
So it is nothing but two of those two.
What about an equal to three and equal to trivial F of three minus one?
That is F of two.
That is nothing but two plus and minus one.
That is what three minus one two into f of n minus two, three minus two.
That is a4141 is almost one.
Two plus two is four.
We just saw that for an equal to three, Don, that is coming forward.
And that is also true because we discussed it, because we can go alone, we can go together.
We can go alone, we can go together.
You can go alone or you can go together.
We can go alone.
So these are the four ways that means that occurrence that we have derived is correct and it will work
for all values of n.
Okay.
So again, the time complexity is going to be exponential, but it can be reduced to linear very easily
using memorization if you know a little bit about dynamic programming.
All right.
So that's all for this video.
Thank you.